Chapter 10 - Safety and your vehicle

Question - You’re leaving your vehicle parked on a road and unattended. When may you leave the engine running?

Question - You have too much oil in your engine. What could this cause?

Question - You’re carrying a five-year-old child in the back seat of your car. They’re under 1.35 metres (4 feet 5 inches) tall. A correct child restraint isn’t available. How should you seat them?

Question - You’re carrying an 11-year-old child in the back seat of your car. They’re under 1.35 metres (4 feet 5 inches) tall. What must you make sure of?

Question - You’re parked at the side of the road. You’ll be waiting some time for a passenger. What should you do?

Question - You want to put a rear-facing baby seat on the front passenger seat, which is protected by a frontal airbag. What must you do before setting off?

Question - How can you lessen the risk of your vehicle being broken into at night?

Question - Which of these will help you to keep your car secure?

Question - On a vehicle, where would you find a catalytic converter?

Question - What can driving smoothly achieve?

Question - Which driving technique can help you save fuel?

Question - How can driving in an ecosafe manner help protect the environment?

Question - What does ecosafe driving achieve?

Question - You’re having difficulty finding a parking space in a busy town. You can see there’s space on the zigzag lines of a zebra crossing. Can you park there?

Question - You’re checking your trailer tyres. What’s the legal minimum tread depth over the central three-quarters of its breadth?

Question - What should you do when you leave your car unattended for a few minutes?

Question - Fuel consumption is at its highest when you’re doing what?

Question - When leaving your vehicle, where should you try to park?

Question - When is it acceptable for a passenger to travel in a car without wearing wearing a seat belt?

Question - Where would parking your vehicle cause an obstruction?

Question - You’re driving a friend’s children home from school. They’re both under 14 years old. Who’s responsible for making sure they wear a seat belt or approved child restraint where required?

Question - What’s the most important reason for having a properly adjusted head restraint?

Question - What causes the most damage to the environment?

Question - What can people who live or work in towns and cities do to help reduce urban pollution levels?

Question - How can you reduce the chances of your car being broken into when leaving it unattended?

Question - How can you help to prevent your car radio being stolen?

Question - What will improve fuel consumption?

Question - You service your own vehicle. How should you get rid of the old engine oil?

Question - Why do MOT tests include a strict exhaust emission test?

Question - How can drivers help the environment?

Question - How can you reduce the damage your vehicle causes to the environment?

Question - How can you avoid wasting fuel?

Question - What will be the result of having your vehicle properly serviced?

Question - What could you do to reduce the volume of traffic on the roads?

Question - You enter a road where there are road humps. What should you do?

Question - What’s most likely to waste fuel?

Question - When should you especially check the engine oil level?

Question - What does the law require you to keep in good condition?

Question - Up to how much more fuel will you use by driving at 70 mph, compared with driving at 50 mph?

Question - When you use the brakes, your vehicle pulls to one side. What should you do?

Question - What will happen if your car’s wheels are unbalanced?

Question - Turning the steering wheel while stationary can cause damage to which part of your car?

Question - You have to leave valuables in your car. What’s the safest thing to do?

Question - Which of the following may help to deter a thief from stealing your car?

Question - Which of the following shouldn’t be kept in your vehicle?

Question - What should you do when leaving your vehicle parked and unattended?

Question - You need to top up your battery. What level should you fill it to?

Question - Which of these makes your tyres illegal?

Question - Before starting a journey, it’s wise to plan your route. How can you do this?

Question - What’s the legal minimum depth of tread for car tyres?

Question - Why is it a good idea to plan your journey to avoid busy times?

Question - You’re carrying two 13-year-old children and their parents in your car. Who’s responsible for seeing that the children wear seat belts?

Question - You avoid busy times when travelling. How will this affect your journey?

Question - It can be helpful to plan your route before starting a journey. Why should you also plan an alternative route?

Question - You’re making an appointment and will have to travel a long distance. How should you plan for the journey?

Question - What can rapid acceleration and heavy braking lead to?

Question - Which of these, if allowed to get low, could cause you to crash?

Question - What can cause excessive or uneven tyre wear?

Question - What’s the main cause of brake fade?

Question - What should you do if your anti-lock brakes (ABS) warning light stays on?

Question - What does it mean if this light comes on while you’re driving?

Question - It’s important to wear suitable shoes when you’re driving. Why is this?

Question - What will reduce the risk of neck injury resulting from a collision?

Question - You’re testing your suspension. You notice that your vehicle keeps bouncing when you press down on the front wing. What does this mean?

Question - What can cause excessive or uneven tyre wear?

Question - How will a roof rack affect your car’s performance?

Question - What’s badly affected if the tyres are under-inflated?

Question - When mustn’t you sound your vehicle’s horn?

Question - What makes the vehicle in the picture ‘environmentally friendly’?

Question - Why have ‘red routes’ been introduced in major cities?

Question - What’s the purpose of road humps, chicanes and narrowings?

Question - What’s the purpose of a catalytic converter?

Question - It’s essential that tyre pressures are checked regularly. When should this be done?

Question - When will your vehicle use more fuel?

Question - How should you dispose of a used vehicle battery?

Question - What’s most likely to cause high fuel consumption?

Question - The fluid level in your battery is low. What should you top it up with?

Question - You’re parked on the road at night. Where must you use parking lights?

Question - How can you reduce the environmental harm caused by your motor vehicle?
