Chapter 11 - Safety margins

Question - What would suggest you’re driving on ice?

Question - You’re driving along a wet road. How can you tell if your vehicle’s tyres are losing their grip on the surface?

Question - In which conditions will your overall stopping distance increase?

Question - You’re driving on an open road in dry weather. What should the distance be between you and the vehicle in front?

Question - How can you use your vehicle’s engine as a brake?

Question - When are anti-lock brakes (ABS) most effective?

Question - When will anti-lock brakes take effect?

Question - You’re driving on a wet motorway with surface spray. What lights should you use?

Question - What can result when you travel for long distances in neutral (known as coasting)?

Question - What should you do when driving in fog?

Question - You’re following other vehicles in fog. You have your lights on. What else can you do to reduce the chances of being in a collision?

Question - What does driving a vehicle with anti-lock brakes allow you to do?

Question - You’re using a contraflow system. What should you do?

Question - You’re driving a vehicle that has anti-lock brakes. How should you apply the footbrake when you need to stop in an emergency?

Question - You’re driving on an icy road. How can you avoid wheelspin?

Question - In which conditions are your anti-lock brakes most unlikely to prevent skidding?

Question - What’s the main cause of skidding?

Question - You’re driving along a country road. You see this sign. What should you do after dealing safely with the hazard?

Question - You’re driving in freezing conditions. What should you do when approaching a sharp bend?

Question - You’re turning left on a slippery road. What should you do if the back of your vehicle slides to the right?

Question - What should you clear of ice and snow before starting a journey in freezing weather?

Question - What will help when you’re trying to move off on snow?

Question - What should you do when you’re driving in snowy conditions?

Question - What’s the main benefit of driving a four-wheel-drive vehicle?

Question - You’re about to go down a steep hill. What should you do to control the speed of your vehicle?

Question - What should you do when parking your vehicle facing downhill?

Question - You’re driving in a built-up area that has traffic-calming measures. What should you do when you approach a road hump?

Question - Anti-lock brakes reduce the chances of skidding. When is this particularly important?

Question - On what type of road surface may anti-lock brakes not work effectively?

Question - When are anti-lock brakes of most use to you?

Question - By how much can stopping distances increase in icy conditions?

Question - In windy conditions, which activity requires extra care?

Question - When approaching a right-hand bend, you should keep well to the left. Why is this?

Question - You’ve just gone through deep water. What should you do to make sure your brakes are working properly?

Question - In very hot weather the road surface can become soft. What will this affect?

Question - Where are you most likely to be affected by side winds?

Question - In good conditions, what’s the typical stopping distance at 70 mph?

Question - What’s the shortest overall stopping distance on a dry road at 60 mph?

Question - You’re following a vehicle at a safe distance on a wet road. Another driver overtakes you and pulls into the gap you’ve left. What should you do?

Question - You’re travelling at 50 mph on a good, dry road. What’s your typical overall stopping distance?

Question - You’re on a good, dry road surface. Your brakes and tyres are good. What’s the typical overall stopping distance at 40 mph?

Question - What should you do when overtaking a motorcyclist in strong winds?

Question - Overall stopping distance is made up of thinking distance and braking distance. You’re on a good, dry road surface, with good brakes and tyres. What’s the typical braking distance from 50 mph?

Question - In heavy motorway traffic, the vehicle behind you is following too closely. How can you lower the risk of a collision?