Chapter 12 - Vehicle handling

Question - Why is it bad technique to coast when driving downhill?

Question - What should you do when dealing with this hazard?

Question - Why is travelling in neutral for long distances (known as coasting) wrong?

Question - When must you use dipped headlights during the day?

Question - You’re braking on a wet road. Your vehicle begins to skid. It doesn’t have anti-lock brakes. What’s the first thing you should do?

Question - Why are vehicles fitted with rear fog lights?

Question - While you’re driving in fog, it becomes necessary to use front fog lights. What should you remember?

Question - What should you do when there’s been a heavy fall of snow?

Question - You’re driving down a long, steep hill. You suddenly notice that your brakes aren’t working as well as normal. What’s the usual cause of this?

Question - You have to make a journey in fog. What should you do before you set out?

Question - You’ve just driven out of fog. What must you do now that visibility has improved?

Question - Why is it dangerous to leave rear fog lights on when they’re not needed?

Question - What will happen if you hold the clutch pedal down or roll in neutral for too long?

Question - You’re driving down a steep hill. Why could it be dangerous to keep the clutch down or roll in neutral for too long?

Question - You’re driving on an icy road. What distance from the car in front should you drive?

Question - You’re driving on a well-lit motorway on a clear night. What must you do?

Question - You’re on a motorway at night, with other vehicles just ahead of you. Which lights should you have on?

Question - How will your vehicle be affected when you drive up steep hills?

Question - What will affect your vehicle’s stopping distance?

Question - You’re driving on the motorway in windy conditions. What should you do as you pass a high-sided vehicle?

Question - You’re driving on a motorway at night. When may you switch off your headlights?

Question - What should you do to correct a rear-wheel skid?

Question - When will you feel the effects of engine braking?

Question - You’re driving in fog. Why should you keep well back from the vehicle in front?

Question - Daytime visibility is poor but not seriously reduced. Which lights should you switch on?

Question - What should you do if you park on the road when it’s foggy?

Question - You’re driving at night and are dazzled by vehicle headlights coming towards you. What should you do?

Question - When may front fog lights be used?

Question - You’re driving with your front fog lights switched on. Earlier fog has now cleared. What should you do?

Question - Why should you switch off your rear fog lights when the fog has cleared?

Question - What will happen if you use rear fog lights in good conditions?

Question - What can fitting chains to your wheels help to prevent?

Question - How can you use your vehicle’s engine to control your speed?

Question - Why could it be dangerous to keep the clutch down, or select neutral, for long periods of time while you’re driving?

Question - The road is wet. Why might a motorcyclist steer round drain covers on a bend?

Question - After this hazard you should test your brakes. Why is this?

Question - When may you overtake another vehicle on the left?

Question - Why should you always reduce your speed when travelling in fog?

Question - You’re travelling in very heavy rain. How is this likely to affect your overall stopping distance?

Question - What should you do when you’re overtaking at night?

Question - When may you wait in a box junction?

Question - Which of these plates normally appears with this road sign?

Question - What do traffic-calming measures do?

Question - You’re on a motorway in fog. The left-hand edge of the motorway can be identified by reflective studs. What colour are they?

Question - What’s a rumble device designed to do?

Question - What should you do when making a journey in foggy conditions?

Question - What must you do when overtaking a car at night?

Question - You’re travelling on a road that has speed humps. What should you do when the driver in front is travelling more slowly than you?

Question - You see these markings on the road. Why are they there?

Question - How would you identify a section of road used by trams?

Question - What should you do when you meet an oncoming vehicle on a single-track road?
