Chapter 14 - Vulnerable road users

Question - You’re driving in town. There’s a bus at the bus stop on the other side of the road. Why should you be careful?

Question - How should you overtake horse riders?

Question - Why should you allow extra room when overtaking a motorcyclist on a windy day?

Question - Where should you take particular care to look for motorcyclists and cyclists?

Question - At night, you see a pedestrian wearing reflective clothing and carrying a bright red light. What does this mean?

Question - The road outside this school is marked with yellow zigzag lines. What do these lines mean?

Question - You’ve just passed your test. How can you reduce your risk of being involved in a collision?

Question - You’re driving past parked cars. You notice a bicycle wheel sticking out between them. What should you do?

Question - You want to reverse into a side road, but you aren’t sure that the area behind your car is clear. What should you do?

Question - You’re dazzled at night by a vehicle behind you. What should you do?

Question - You’re about to reverse into a side road. A pedestrian is waiting to cross behind you. What should you do?

Question - You’re driving towards a zebra crossing. A person in a wheelchair is waiting to cross. What should you do?

Question - Who’s especially in danger of not being seen as you reverse your car?

Question - You want to turn right from a junction but your view is restricted by parked vehicles. What should you do?

Question - You’re at the front of a queue of traffic waiting to turn right into a side road. Why is it important to check your right mirror just before turning?

Question - What must a driver do at a pelican crossing when the amber light is flashing?

Question - You’ve stopped at a pelican crossing. A disabled person is crossing slowly in front of you when the lights change to green. What should you do?

Question - You’re driving past a line of parked cars. You notice a ball bouncing out into the road ahead. What should you do?

Question - You want to turn right from a main road into a side road. What should you do just before turning?

Question - You’re driving in a slow-moving queue of traffic. Just before changing lane, what should you do?

Question - You’re on a country road. What should you expect to see coming towards you on your side of the road?

Question - Who may use toucan crossings?

Question - What should you do when following a car driven by an elderly driver?

Question - Some junctions controlled by traffic lights have a marked area between two stop lines. What’s this for?

Question - You’re following a cyclist. What should you do when you wish to turn left just ahead?

Question - When you’re overtaking a cyclist, you should leave as much room as you would give to a car. What’s the main reason for this?

Question - A horse rider is in the left-hand lane approaching a roundabout. Where should you expect the rider to go?

Question - What should you do when passing sheep on a road?

Question - Powered vehicles used by disabled people are small and hard to see. How do they give early warning when on a dual carriageway?

Question - Where should you never overtake a cyclist?

Question - What does a flashing amber beacon mean when it’s on a moving vehicle?

Question - What does this sign mean?

Question - You notice horse riders in front. What should you do first?

Question - What’s the purpose of these road markings?

Question - The left-hand pavement is closed due to street repairs. What should you do?

Question - What should you do when you’re following a motorcyclist along a road that has a poor surface?

Question - What does this sign tell you?

Question - You’re approaching this roundabout and see the cyclist signal right. Why is the cyclist keeping to the left?

Question - What should you do when approaching this crossing?

Question - You see a pedestrian with a dog wearing a yellow or burgundy coat. What does this indicate?

Question - You’re waiting to come out of a side road. Why should you look carefully for motorcycles?

Question - In daylight, an approaching motorcyclist is using dipped headlights. Why?

Question - Why should motorcyclists wear bright clothing?

Question - You’re unsure what a slow-moving motorcyclist ahead of you is going to do. What should you do?

Question - Why will a motorcyclist look round over their right shoulder just before turning right?

Question - Which is the most vulnerable road user at road junctions?

Question - You’re approaching a roundabout. There are horses just ahead of you. What should you do?

Question - As you approach a pelican crossing, the lights change to green. What should you do if elderly people are halfway across?

Question - There are flashing amber lights under a school warning sign. What action should you take?

Question - Why must these road markings be kept clear?

Question - Where would you see this sign?

Question - You’re following two cyclists. They approach a roundabout in the left-hand lane. In which direction should you expect the cyclists to go?

Question - What should you do when you see two elderly pedestrians about to cross the road ahead?

Question - You’re travelling behind a moped. What should you do when you want to turn left just ahead?

Question - You’re coming up to a roundabout. A cyclist is signalling to turn right. What should you do?

Question - You see a horse rider as you approach a roundabout. What should you do if they’re signalling right but keeping well to the left?

Question - Which of these should you allow extra room when overtaking?

Question - How would you react to drivers who appear to be inexperienced?

Question - Why should you look particularly for motorcyclists and cyclists at junctions?

Question - What should you do when you’re following a learner driver who stalls at a junction?

Question - Which sign means that there may be people walking along the road?

Question - You’re turning left at a junction where pedestrians have started to cross. What should you do?

Question - You’re turning left into a side road. What hazard should you be especially aware of?

Question - You intend to turn right into a side road. Why should you check for motorcyclists just before turning?

Question - Why is a toucan crossing different from other crossings?

Question - How will a school crossing patrol signal you to stop?

Question - Where would you see this sign?

Question - What does this sign mean?

Question - You see a pedestrian carrying a white stick with a red band. What does this tell you?

Question - What action would you take when elderly people are crossing the road?