Chapter 4 - Hazard awareness

Question - Why should the junction on the left be kept clear?

Question - Your motorway journey is boring and you feel drowsy. What should you do?

Question - You want to turn left at this junction. Your view of the main road is restricted. What should you do?

Question - When driving a car fitted with automatic transmission, what would you use ‘kick down’ for?

Question - You’re driving along this motorway. It’s raining. What should you do when following this lorry?

Question - You’re driving towards this left-hand bend. What dangers should you be aware of?

Question - Ahead of you, traffic in the left-hand lane is slowing. What should you do?

Question - In which circumstances may you use hazard warning lights?

Question - You’re waiting to emerge at a junction. Your view is restricted by parked vehicles. What can help you to see traffic on the road you’re joining?

Question - After passing your driving test, you suffer from ill health. This affects your driving. What must you do?

Question - You’re about to drive home. You can’t find the glasses you need to wear. What should you do?

Question - What’s a common effect of drinking alcohol?

Question - Your doctor has given you a course of medicine. Why should you ask how it will affect you?

Question - You find that you need glasses to read vehicle number plates at the required distance. When must you wear them?

Question - During periods of illness, your ability to drive may be impaired. What must you do?

Question - Which of the following types of glasses shouldn’t be worn when driving at night?

Question - What should you do if you begin to feel drowsy while you’re driving?

Question - What can seriously affect your ability to concentrate?

Question - What should you do if you become tired while you’re driving on a motorway?

Question - You find that your eyesight has become very poor and your optician cannot help you. By law, who should you tell?

Question - You’re about to drive home. You feel very tired and have a severe headache. What should you do?

Question - When should you use hazard warning lights?

Question - You’re driving on a long journey. What can you do to help prevent tiredness?

Question - You take some cough medicine given to you by a friend. What should you do before driving?

Question - You take the wrong route and find you’re on a one-way street. What should you do?

Question - What will be a serious distraction from driving?

Question - You’re driving along this road. The driver on the left is reversing from a driveway. What should you do?

Question - You’ve been involved in an argument that has made you feel angry. What should you do before starting your journey?

Question - You’re driving on this dual carriageway. Why may you need to slow down?

Question - You’ve just been overtaken by this motorcyclist, who has cut in sharply. What should you do?

Question - Why are place names painted on the road surface?

Question - You’ve been convicted of driving while unfit through drink or drugs. You’ll find this is likely to cause the cost of one of the following to rise considerably. Which one?

Question - Some two-way roads are divided into three lanes. Why are these particularly dangerous?

Question - What advice should you give to a driver who has had a few alcoholic drinks at a party?

Question - You’re on a dual carriageway. Ahead, you see a vehicle with an amber flashing light. What could this be?

Question - You’ve been taking medicine that causes drowsiness. You begin to feel better, but you still need to take the medicine. What should you do about driving?

Question - What does this signal from a police officer mean to oncoming traffic?

Question - You’re about to drive home from holiday when you become ill. A doctor prescribes drugs that are likely to affect your driving. What should you do?

Question - Why should you be cautious when going past this stationary bus?

Question - Where shouldn’t you overtake?

Question - What’s an effect of drinking alcohol?

Question - What does the solid white line at the side of the road indicate?

Question - You’re driving towards this level crossing. What would be the first warning of an approaching train?

Question - You’re behind this cyclist. When the traffic lights change, what should you do?

Question - What should the white car do when the traffic lights change to green?

Question - You intend to turn left at the traffic lights. What should you do just before turning?

Question - Why should you reduce your speed when driving along this road?

Question - What might you expect to happen in this situation?

Question - You’re driving on a road with several lanes. You see these signs above the lanes. What do they mean?

Question - You’re invited to a pub lunch. You know that you’ll have to drive in the evening. What’s your best course of action?

Question - You’re planning a long journey. Do you need to plan rest stops?

Question - The red lights are flashing. What should you do when approaching this level crossing?

Question - You’re approaching a crossroads. The traffic lights have failed. What should you do?

Question - What should the driver of the red car (arrowed) do?

Question - You’re following a slower-moving vehicle on a narrow country road. There’s a junction just ahead on the right. What should you do?

Question - What should you do as you approach this overhead bridge?

Question - Why are mirrors often slightly curved (convex)?

Question - A slow-moving lorry showing this sign is travelling in the middle lane of a three-lane motorway. How should you pass it?

Question - You think the driver of the vehicle in front has forgotten to cancel their right indicator. What should you do?

Question - What’s the main hazard the driver of the red car (arrowed) should be aware of?

Question - What type of vehicle displays this yellow sign?

Question - What hazard should you be aware of when travelling along this street?

Question - What must you do at this junction?

Question - What’s the main hazard you should be aware of when following this cyclist?

Question - A driver pulls out of a side road in front of you, causing you to brake hard. What should you do?

Question - A driver’s behaviour has upset you. What can you do to safely get over this incident?

Question - How would age affect an elderly person’s driving ability?

Question - How should you drive in areas with traffic-calming measures?

Question - You’ve just passed these warning lights. What hazard would you expect to see next?

Question - When approaching this hazard, why should you slow down?

Question - Where would you expect to see these markers?

Question - What’s the main hazard shown in this picture?

Question - Which road user has caused a hazard?

Question - What should the driver of the car approaching the crossing do?

Question - What should the driver of the grey car (arrowed) be especially aware of?

Question - You see this sign ahead. What should you expect?

Question - You’re approaching this cyclist. What should you do?

Question - Why must you take extra care when turning right at this junction?

Question - Which type of vehicle should you be ready to give way to as you approach this bridge?

Question - What type of vehicle could you expect to meet in the middle of the road?
