Chapter 5 - Incidents, accidents and emergencies

Question - You lose control of your car and damage a garden wall. No-one is around. What must you do?

Question - Your vehicle breaks down in a tunnel. What should you do?

Question - Your vehicle catches fire while driving through a tunnel. It’s still driveable. What should you do?

Question - You’re in a tunnel. Your vehicle is on fire and you can’t drive it. What should you do?

Question - What should you do as you approach a long road tunnel?

Question - You’ve broken down on a two-way road. You have a warning triangle. At least how far from your vehicle should you place the warning triangle?

Question - Your vehicle has broken down on an automatic railway level crossing. What should you do first?

Question - You break down on a level crossing. The lights haven’t yet begun to flash. What’s the first thing you should do?

Question - What should you carry for use in the event of a collision?

Question - Your tyre bursts while you’re driving. What should you do?

Question - You have a collision while your car is moving. What’s the first thing you must do?

Question - Your vehicle has a puncture on a motorway. What should you do?

Question - You’re in collision with another moving vehicle. Someone is injured and your vehicle is damaged. What information should you find out?

Question - You’ve stalled in the middle of a level crossing and can’t restart the engine. The warning bells start to ring. What should you do?

Question - You’re driving on a motorway. When can you use hazard warning lights?

Question - You’ve broken down on a motorway. When you use the emergency telephone, what will you be asked for?

Question - Before driving through a tunnel, what should you do?

Question - You’re driving through a tunnel and the traffic is flowing normally. What should you do?

Question - What safeguard could you take against fire risk to your vehicle?

Question - You’re on the motorway. Luggage falls from your vehicle. What should you do?

Question - While you’re driving, a warning light on your vehicle’s instrument panel comes on. What should you do?

Question - You’re the first person to arrive at an incident where people are badly injured. You’ve switched on your hazard warning lights and checked all engines are stopped. What else should you do?

Question - A collision has just happened. An injured person is lying in a busy road. What’s the first thing you should do to help?

Question - You arrive at the scene of a motorcycle crash. The rider is injured. When should their helmet be removed?

Question - At an incident, what should you do with a casualty who has stopped breathing?

Question - You arrive at an incident. There’s no danger from fire or further collisions. What’s your first priority when attending to an unconscious motorcyclist?

Question - You’re at the scene of an incident. Someone is suffering from shock. How should you treat them?

Question - At an incident, someone is unconscious. What would your priority be?

Question - There’s been a collision. A motorcyclist is lying injured and unconscious. Unless it’s essential, why should you not usually attempt to remove their helmet?

Question - You’ve stopped at an incident to give help. What should you do?

Question - There’s been a collision. A driver is suffering from shock. What should you do?

Question - You arrive at the scene of a motorcycle crash. No other vehicle is involved. The rider is unconscious and lying in the middle of the road. What’s the first thing you should do at the scene?

Question - At an incident, a small child isn’t breathing. What should you do to try and help?

Question - At an incident, a casualty isn’t breathing. What should you do while helping them to start breathing again?

Question - At an incident, someone is suffering from severe burns. What should you do to help them?

Question - You arrive at an incident. A pedestrian is bleeding heavily from a leg wound. The leg isn’t broken and there’s nothing in the wound. How could you help?

Question - At an incident, a casualty is unconscious but breathing. When should you move them?

Question - At an incident, it’s important to look after any casualties. What should you do with them when the area is safe?

Question - A tanker is involved in a collision. Which sign shows that it’s carrying dangerous goods?

Question - You’re involved in a collision. Afterwards, which document may the police ask you to produce?

Question - After a collision, someone is unconscious in their vehicle. When should you call the emergency services?

Question - You see a car on the hard shoulder of a motorway with a ‘help’ pennant displayed. What does this mean?

Question - When are you allowed to use hazard warning lights?

Question - You’re going through a congested tunnel and have to stop. What should you do?

Question - On a motorway, when should the hard shoulder be used?

Question - You arrive at the scene of a crash where someone is bleeding heavily from a wound in their arm. Nothing is embedded in the wound. What could you do to help?

Question - You’re at an incident. What could you do to help a casualty who’s unconscious?

Question - A casualty isn’t breathing normally and needs CPR. At what rate should you press down and release on the centre of their chest?

Question - A person has been injured. They may be suffering from shock. What are the warning signs to look for?

Question - An injured person has been placed in the recovery position. They’re unconscious but breathing normally. What else should be done?

Question - An injured motorcyclist is lying unconscious in the road. The traffic has stopped and there’s no further danger. What should you do to help?

Question - What should you do if you see a large box fall from a lorry onto the motorway?

Question - You’re going through a long tunnel. What will warn you of congestion or an incident ahead?

Question - An adult casualty isn’t breathing. To maintain circulation, CPR should be given. What’s the correct depth to press down on their chest?

Question - You’re the first to arrive at the scene of a crash. What should you do?
