Chapter 6 - Motorway rules

Question - You’re driving on a motorway and have to slow down quickly due to a hazard ahead. How can you warn drivers behind of the hazard?

Question - Your car gets a puncture while you’re driving on the motorway. You get it onto the hard shoulder. What should you do?

Question - You’re driving on a motorway. By mistake, you go past the exit that you wanted to take. What should you do?

Question - Your vehicle has broken down on a motorway. You aren’t able to stop on the hard shoulder. What should you do?

Question - Why is it particularly important to carry out a check on your vehicle before making a long motorway journey?

Question - You’re driving on a motorway. The car in front shows its hazard warning lights for a short time. What does this tell you?

Question - You’re driving on the motorway. Well before you reach your intended exit, where should you position your vehicle?

Question - What restrictions apply to new drivers holding a provisional driving licence?

Question - Your vehicle breaks down on the hard shoulder of a motorway. You need to use your mobile phone to call for help. What should you do?

Question - You’re towing a trailer along a three-lane motorway. When may you use the right-hand lane?

Question - You’re on a motorway. There’s a contraflow system ahead. What would you expect to find?

Question - When may you stop on the hard shoulder of a motorway?

Question - Traffic officers operate on motorways and some primary routes in England. What are they authorised to do?

Question - You’re on a motorway. A red cross is displayed above the hard shoulder. What does this mean?

Question - You’re on a smart motorway. A mandatory speed limit is displayed above the hard shoulder. What does this mean?

Question - What’s the aim of a smart motorway?

Question - You’re using a smart motorway. What happens when it’s operating?

Question - Why can it be an advantage for traffic speed to stay constant over a longer distance?

Question - You shouldn’t normally travel on the hard shoulder of a motorway. When can you use it?

Question - What’s used to reduce traffic bunching on a motorway?

Question - When may you stop on a motorway?

Question - Unless signs show otherwise, what’s the national speed limit for a car or motorcycle on a motorway?

Question - You’re on a motorway and there are red flashing lights above every lane. What must you do?

Question - You’re on a three-lane motorway. A red cross is showing above the hard shoulder and mandatory speed limits above all other lanes. What does this mean?

Question - You’re travelling in the left-hand lane of a three-lane motorway. How should you react to traffic joining from a slip road?

Question - On a three-lane motorway, what does this sign mean?

Question - What basic rule applies when you’re using a motorway?

Question - You’re travelling along a motorway and feel tired. Where should you stop to rest?

Question - You’re travelling along a motorway. When are you allowed to overtake on the left?

Question - You’re towing a trailer on a motorway. What’s the speed limit for a car towing a trailer on this road?

Question - On a motorway, what’s an emergency refuge area used for?

Question - What should the left-hand lane of a motorway be used for?

Question - You’re on a motorway. What colour are the reflective studs on the left of the carriageway?

Question - On a three-lane motorway, which lane should you normally use?

Question - What should you do when going through a contraflow system on a motorway?

Question - You’re on a three-lane motorway. There are red reflective studs on your left and white ones to your right. Which lane are you in?

Question - You’re approaching roadworks on a motorway. What should you do?

Question - Which vehicles are prohibited from using the motorway?

Question - What should you do when driving or riding along a motorway?

Question - What should you do immediately after joining a motorway?

Question - You’re travelling along a motorway. Where would you find a crawler or climbing lane?

Question - What’s the right-hand lane used for on a three-lane motorway?

Question - What do these motorway signs show?

Question - What should you use the hard shoulder of a motorway for?

Question - On which part of a motorway are amber reflective studs found?

Question - You’re in the right-hand lane of a three-lane motorway. What do these overhead signs mean?

Question - What colour are the reflective studs between the lanes on a motorway?

Question - When are you allowed to stop on a motorway?

Question - What colour are the reflective studs between a motorway and its slip road?

Question - You’ve broken down on a motorway. In which direction should you walk to find the nearest emergency telephone?

Question - You’re joining a motorway. Why is it important to make full use of the slip road?

Question - How should you use the emergency telephone on a motorway?

Question - What should you do when you’re joining a motorway?

Question - What’s the national speed limit on motorways for cars and motorcycles?

Question - Which vehicles should use the left-hand lane on a three-lane motorway?

Question - Which of these isn’t allowed to travel in the right-hand lane of a three-lane motorway?

Question - You break down on a motorway. You need to call for help. Why may it be better to use an emergency roadside telephone rather than a mobile phone?

Question - You’ve had a breakdown on the hard shoulder of a motorway. When the problem has been fixed, how should you rejoin the main carriageway?
