Chapter 9 - Rules of the road

Question - To help keep your vehicle secure at night, where should you park?

Question - You’re driving in the right-hand lane of a dual carriageway. You see signs showing that the right-hand lane is closed 800 yards ahead. What should you do?

Question - During which manoeuvre may you remove your seat belt?

Question - You’re driving on a road that has a cycle lane. The lane is marked by a broken white line. What does this mean?

Question - Over what distance are you allowed to reverse?

Question - What must you have to park in a disabled space?

Question - What should you do when you’re unsure whether it’s safe to reverse your vehicle?

Question - When must you stop your vehicle?

Question - When may you reverse from a side road into a main road?

Question - You want to turn right at a box junction. There’s oncoming traffic. What should you do?

Question - You’re reversing your vehicle into a side road. When would the greatest hazard to passing traffic occur?

Question - Where’s the safest place to park your vehicle at night?

Question - When may you stop on an urban clearway?

Question - You’re looking for somewhere to park your vehicle. The area is full except for spaces marked ‘disabled use’. What can you do?

Question - You’re on a road that’s only wide enough for one vehicle. A car is coming towards you. What should you do?

Question - You’re driving at night with your headlights on full beam. A vehicle is overtaking you. When should you dip your lights?

Question - When may you drive a motor car in this bus lane?

Question - Other than direction indicators, how can you give signals to other road users?

Question - You’re parked in a busy high street. What’s the safest way to turn your vehicle around so you can go the opposite way?

Question - What does this sign tell you?

Question - You’re driving over a level crossing. The warning lights come on and a bell rings. What should you do?

Question - What must you do when entering roadworks where a temporary speed limit is displayed?

Question - You’re on a busy main road and find that you’re travelling in the wrong direction. What should you do?

Question - You’re on a well-lit road at night, in a built-up area. How will using dipped headlights help?

Question - The dual carriageway you’re turning right onto has a very narrow central reservation. What should you do?

Question - What’s the national speed limit on a single carriageway road for cars and motorcycles?

Question - You park at night on a road with a 40 mph speed limit. What should you do?

Question - Where will you see these red and white markers?

Question - You’re travelling on a motorway in England. You must stop when signalled to do so by which of these?

Question - You’re going straight ahead at a roundabout. How should you signal?

Question - When may you drive over a footpath?

Question - A single carriageway road has this sign. What’s the maximum permitted speed for a car towing a trailer?

Question - What’s the speed limit for a car towing a small caravan along a dual carriageway?

Question - You want to park and you see this sign. What should you do on the days and times shown?

Question - A cycle lane, marked by a solid white line, is in operation. What does this mean for car drivers?

Question - Where shouldn’t you park?

Question - You intend to turn left from a main road into a minor road. What should you do as you approach it?

Question - You’re waiting at a level crossing. A train passes but the lights keep flashing. What must you do?

Question - You’re waiting at a level crossing. The red warning lights continue to flash after a train has passed by. What should you do?

Question - Which vehicle might have to take a different course from normal at roundabouts?

Question - On which occasion may you enter a box junction?

Question - When may you stop and wait in a box junction?

Question - Which person’s signal to stop must you obey?

Question - You see a pedestrian waiting at a zebra crossing. What should you normally do?

Question - Who can use a toucan crossing?

Question - You’re waiting at a pelican crossing. What does it mean when the red light changes to flashing amber?

Question - When can you park on the left opposite these road markings?

Question - You’re turning right at a crossroads. An oncoming driver is also turning right. What’s the advantage of turning behind the oncoming vehicle?

Question - You’re travelling along a street with parked vehicles on the left-hand side. Why should you keep your speed down?

Question - What’s the meaning of this sign?

Question - What should you do when you meet an obstruction on your side of the road?

Question - When can you park on the right-hand side of a road at night?

Question - You’re on a two-lane dual carriageway. Why would you use the right-hand lane?

Question - On a three-lane dual carriageway, what can the right-hand lane be used for?

Question - Who has priority at an unmarked crossroads?

Question - You’re approaching a busy junction. What should you do when, at the last moment, you realise you’re in the wrong lane?

WQuestion - hat’s the nearest you may park to a junction?

Question - Where may you overtake on a one-way street?

Question - How should you signal when going straight ahead at a roundabout?

Question - What’s the meaning of this sign?

Question - What’s the national speed limit for cars and motorcycles on a dual carriageway?

Question - There are no speed-limit signs on the road. How is a 30 mph limit indicated?

Question - You see street lights but no speed-limit signs. What will the speed limit usually be?

Question - What does this sign mean?

Question - There’s a tractor ahead. You want to overtake but you aren’t sure whether it’s safe. What should you do?

Question - Which vehicle is most likely to take an unusual course at a roundabout?

Question - When mustn’t you stop on a clearway?
